# HC_Regeneration
Partial Reprogramming Leads to Robust Regeneration of Cochlear Hair Cells in Adult Mice

ABSTRACT 

Hair cell loss is the major cause of permanent hearing loss in humans. Strategies to overcome irreversible cochlear hair cell damage and loss in mammals are of vital importance to hearing recovery. In mature mammalian cochleae, hair cell regeneration occurs only with MYC/NICD reprogramming. However, the underlying mechanisms are not well defined. By single-cell RNA-Seq study, we show that MYC/NICD “rejuvenate” the adult mice's cochlea by regulating multiple downstream pathways, among which Wnt and cAMP pathways play the main role. The blockade of these two signaling pathways greatly suppresses hair cell regeneration in adult mice. Moreover, we identified a combination of chemicals that can replace the reprogramming effect of MYC/NICD and sufficiently regenerate hair cells in adult mice. By lineage tracing, we show that the regenerated hair cells can be derived from the original “terminally differentiated” supporting cells. Regenerated hair cells were labeled with multiple mature hair cell markers including MYO7A, PVALB, and ESPN. Further, regenerated hair cells were labeled with an outer hair cell marker SLC26A5 (prestin) and an inner hair cell marker SLC17A8 (VGLUT3), suggesting the specification of auditory hair cells. The new hair cells formed connections with adult spiral ganglion neurons and took up FM1-43 dye, an indication of the presence of the transduction complex. In addition, we demonstrated highly efficient hair cell regeneration in a severe hair cell loss mouse model. Our study identified a combinatorial approach using chemicals to regenerate hair cells in mature mammalian cochleae, laying the foundation for hearing restoration with a clinically relevant approach. 
